[Applause]
Hi listeners, welcome back to No Priors.
RL is back with a vengeance and one of
the most talentdense new research labs
has a product release, a new code
comprehension agent. Reflection AI's
co-founders Misha Laskin and Jana Santon
work together as leaders at Google
DeepMind on groundbreaking projects like
Alph Go, Alphazero, and Gemini. I talked
to Misha about building universal
superhuman agents, the trickiness of
reward modeling, bringing all knowledge
work tasks under data distribution, how
RL for language and robotics differs,
the winds surf non-acquisition and the
landscape from here. Misha, welcome.
Thank you for doing this.
>> Yeah, thanks Sarah for having me.
>> So, it's been um about a wild like year
and a half since you guys started the
company. Is that about right?
>> Roughly a year and a half, maybe a bit
less, but I'd say it's ballpark correct.
Well, can you just start by describing
you've said that the company's mission
is to build super intelligent autonomous
systems and we've talked before about
why like this is the moment in time
that's possible. What is different about
that from building just super
intelligence which is now a sort of more
popular ambitious goal?
>> At a high level it's fairly synonymous.
Uh but maybe there are different ways of
thinking about how to build super
intelligence and what that might look
like.
I think on one spectrum there's an
academic way to look at it uh which is
uh and to some sense to some extent um
super intelligence in that sense has
already been achieved. So uh right Alph
Go was a super intelligent system and
there were other systems during that
time that were built that were super
intelligent in narrow domains and I
think you can go for the goal of
building a very broad super intelligence
by you know kind of locking yourself up
in an academic or it's not really an
academic but kind of an industrial lab
with um that is sort of kind of
decoupled from uh product or customers
and kind of maps out all the benchmarks
that are out there uh and build super
intelligence that way. I think that is
that is one approach. Um I think the
other approach is to kind of think about
what is super intelligence more
concretely. How is it going to be
deployed? What is it actually going to
look like in people's hands and build
backwards from there. So I would kind of
say that that approach is more kind of
co-designing product and research
together. Now the kind of benefits of
that approach is that you're kind of uh
m you're optimizing for real problems.
The cons to it is that you have to be a
lot more focused, right? Because your
product kind of defines the sort of
capabilities that you want to draw draw
out of the system and you have to start
out a lot more focused before expanding
um across, you know, other product
categories and other capabilities. So I
would say that on the spectrum of
companies that are kind of super
intelligence um and just a research lab
and then figure out what the product is,
you know, once it's built as opposed to
co-designing product and research
together to build very powerful systems
uh in what I would call kind of um ASI
complete categories. You can pick
something that is uh maybe too small of
a category to draw out a super
intelligence. As long as you pick a
category that I would say is kind of big
enough to be ASI complete um I think and
this is kind of our approach at
reflection is it makes a lot more sense
to be focused and co-design those two
things together the product and the
research
>> I want to come back to um choice of
initial problem uh in in a minute in
terms of just having the intuition and
the the confidence to say like we can go
do this as a team we're going to recruit
great people and go build reflection you
and your co-founder Giannis were working
at Gemini together in key roles before
and previously you had been um part of
Peter Abil's lab who's an amazing
researcher as well. Um you had described
to me as having like I believe the term
you use was somewhat muscled your way
into AI and deep learning from
originally a physics background like how
did you decide to go work on this and
end up in Peter's lab?
>> Yeah, as a as a kid uh I became really
interested in physics u theoretical
physics. Uh it was I mean probably a
byproduct of I'm I'm Russian uh kind of
Israeli American and moved around and
then when I landed in the states it was
uh kind of in a desert in Washington
state uh learning a new language and so
I had a lot of time in my hands and you
know bumped into um my parents had uh
had the Fman lectures uh in their in
their library and so I uh spent a lot of
time you know just reading what what was
on the shelf and bumped into that and
got really interested in physics. How
old were you?
>> I was so when my interest in physics
started that was probably um around
middle school and it really I think
became the thing I wanted to do in in
high school. And the reason physics was
so interesting was because it kind of
seemed like the science that was at the
root of many of the things that became
impactful. Um right so I was reading
about the history of the transistor and
it was invented by a group of
theoretical physicists. I was reading
about you know how GPS works. So, turns
out you need special relativity in order
to um accurately account for uh spatial
coordinates using using GPS. And so, I
felt that physics was kind of the the
root science to pursue. I I went in and
studied it, got my PhD in it. At the
same time, I started seeing uh kind of
deep learning take off and really uh saw
kind of alpha go happen. And my sense
was that uh I want to pursue the kind of
the root science. Uh but there is a such
a thing as kind of the root science of
our time. Uh I think a lot of physics
has uh is a field. It's very interesting
but it's crystallized a lot more than um
you know than a new dynamic field that
was being born out of nothing. uh and AI
to me felt like it was going through the
moment uh that physics went to maybe a
hundred years ago that when I do problem
sets when I did problem sets in physics
and the most exciting stuff that I was
working on there was basically the
things that people were discovering 100
years ago. So I saw it kind of happening
in front of my eyes and uh I just
decided that that was the science to bet
on. uh and in particular because it was
AlphaGo that was that inspired me
because it was just unbelievable to me
you could train a neural network um to
have such immense kind of basically
reasoning capabilities right this thing
was able was super intelligent within
the realm of go yeah I decided that I
needed to kind of get myself into the
best reinforcement learning lab um I
could um and Peter's was Peter's lab was
was that lab for me
>> and then you and Giannis were working
specifically on RL at Gemini
>> that's Right. So, Giannis, my
co-founder, was the um overall RL lead
for Gemini at the time um for one.5. Uh
I was uh working very closely with him
on his team. Yeah, it was a really
exciting time because you know we went
both of us from being reinforcement
learning researchers uh to um training
large language models at scale and we
kind of saw at the end of that project
of what's to come which was you know
Gemini 1 1.5 lands and it became pretty
clear to us that the next paradigm and
effectively the the final paradigm um
that we need to have in place before uh
a you know what people used to call AGI
or now I think the goalposts have
shifted to ASI is reached is just
figuring out how to scale reinforcement
learning um on top of large language
models and the first instances of that
have have been happening right over the
last year. I think we're still actually
a lot earlier than people think. Uh but
there is a web and things have started
to work.
>> Yeah, I definitely uh I definitely want
to talk about what you think is solved
and unsolved here. Um the entire field
has clearly gotten more focused on um
deep reinforcement learning over the
last 18 months. you have this uh huge
product launch this week with Asimov. Um
can you just sort of describe what it
is?
>> So Asimov is uh the best code research
agent in the world. It's a comprehension
agent, meaning that it's really designed
to kind of feel almost like a deep
research for large code bases. The way a
developer is supposed to feel
interacting with it is effectively like
they have a principal level engineer who
deeply understands their organization at
their fingertips. Uh so it's very
different from the existing set of tools
that are focused primarily on code
generation like every single coding tool
has some code generation and some
comprehension aspect. But as we spent a
lot of time kind of with our customers
um trying to understand why coding tools
and this is enterprise specific so I
think I think the the world is different
with startups but within enterprises
when you you know they're adopting
coding tools and you see the impact that
this is having um on their actual
productivity and I think it's much lower
than people uh expect um so it's uh in
fact it's it's sometimes negative
sometimes negligible
>> did you see the recent meter report on
that.
>> Yeah, the the meter report was very
close to what I've been hearing when
talking to engineering leaders within
larger organizations. And it's not just
enterprises. It's I would say growth
stage startups. It's any kind of
engineering organization that has a
sufficiently complex codebase and
sufficiently large team that no one
engineer can have the entire codebase
kind of in their heads. And so
reflection is one of those places as
well. uh like we use our product
actively uh because the you know
training large language models is
complex and there's right the large
language model code base there's there's
the product codebase um knowledge is
kind of scattered across engineers it
it's not just in the codebase it exists
in your chats and project management
tools and um other places where
knowledge lives and so what we're
effectively building towards is this uh
kind of omnisient oracle for
organizations that uh you can go in uh
ask
any question at kind of any level of
complexity and it'll provide you an
answer at the level of what that
principal level engineer would have
given you or you know in the future as
the product expands to other categories
um what the person who's most embedded
in the organization understands um and
of course once you have that solved it
begets much more reliable agents that
act for you as well um but I think the
world today is focused on I would say
80% kind of action
20% understanding. So 80% code
generation, 20% comprehension. The
actual problem is exactly the opposite.
That when you look at what an engineer
does in an organization, 80% of their
time they're spending trying to
comprehend complex systems and um
collaborating with teammates. And what
is collaboration? It's usually someone
asking someone else a question about a
system that they don't know. And so that
I think is kind of the problem at the
heart of what would prevent a super
intelligence from actually working
within an organization. It's really this
kind of understanding and being able to
ingest from a lot of sources of
information and from the team. And once
you have that then the action part I
think becomes uh I don't want to say
trivial but a lot easier. Like it to me
it seems like really 20% of the problem
is teaching these agents how to act and
it's more or less solved. That
definitely squares with both my
understanding of engineering and then my
experience with coding agents
personally, right? If if you think about
the I don't know the like context load
time of just like trying to understand a
new system or code anyone else has
written or code your Asian has written
in the end it's like you know very
stupid um implementation that like if
you had reasoned through it with context
of the system you never would have made
such a mistake or like a you know works
in works in my environment type problem.
Um and and so I I think that very much
mirrors my you know intuitive
understanding of engineering here.
That's great as problem formation. What
what makes ASMO different in terms of
ability to understand better versus just
generate code?
>> There are a few things. So I think this
is kind of where you know why it is so
important to co-design research and
product because as a researcher you'd go
in and say the answer is entirely in the
agent design or the model or something
like this and as a product person you
would say well it's in these product you
know differentiators like being able to
draw not just from your codebase but
knowledge that lives you know in other
sources of information or being able to
learn from kind of the engineering team
to offload uh their tribal knowledge. So
right an engineer can go in and teach as
like hey uh we deploy our you know when
we say environment jobs it's on our team
we mean this specific thing which we
mean kind of Google bath jobs. So now
when another engineer asks a question
about environment jobs in the future,
the system just knows what they're
talking about. A lot of knowledge is
stored in engineer's heads. And I think
you need um both of these things. You
need to understand your customer really
closely and develop differentiated
product almost independently right of
the models that are powering it. Um but
then you also need to innovate on the
research uh in terms of agent design and
model training to actually drive the
capabilities that you want to see out of
the system. And this becomes an
evaluation problem which is basically at
the heart of any any frontier lab as
well. This is uh I think the least
spoken about part of what Frontier Labs
do but possibly the most important which
is figuring out how they evaluate like
what makes Claude magically feel better
at code than um you know another model
out there. Um they did something right
in their evaluations. So when you look
at this problem specifically there are
different capabilities that you need to
um train and and what we do is we really
post train models where you know we
really focus on on post training today.
Some of these things are long context
reasoning. Now when I say long context
reasoning, I don't mean um I actually
mean kind of small models with very long
contexts that are able to go into giant
code bases, sort of suck up as much
information as they can and reason over
and output relevant stuff basically. So
it's almost like neural retrieval. There
are capabilities like um tool use and
multihop reasoning. So this is more for
a you have your agent and it's designed
with some tools and there are two ways
of training um agentic models. One is in
this very general way where you just
train it on thousands of environments
and make it like the most general agent
possible. And that is kind of almost
like the pre-training of agents. Um and
that's sort of what you know that's what
a Frontier Lab does. Um that's what um
this there's a new release from uh Kimmy
2. That's kind of what that model does.
And that's definitely part of it, but in
order to that that kind of gives you a
nice general base to start from. Um, but
then to drive a capability kind of
depthwise like if you really want this
reasoner that has, you know, search
tools and, you know, ability to call
like these long reasoning context models
and other, you know, other tools that it
might want to interact with like, oh,
when do I when do I read from Jira? When
do I read from um another tool? Like
this is kind of a reasoning problem. If
you train with those specific tools in
mind, uh that's typically what people
refer to when they when they say tool
use like they actually train for a
specific set of tools and really drive
like the capabilities um for those
tools. So these are the kinds of
research problems that you need to solve
in order to build the overall system
that's the best in the world. It's not
any one thing. It's all these things
combined. um and some examples of
systems that are being trained for a
specific set of tools. The thing that
comes to mind is Gro the Groth 4 release
and they kind of showed a plot of their
general model and then the model that
was trained with a tool to um basically
climb on humanity's last exam and there
was um some big noticeable difference
between the two. Now that's great, but I
think the downside of that is that does
humanity's last exam actually matter in
any meaningful way for an end user. And
I would argue that some weak
correlation, but the answer is most
likely no. Uh, and so you have to build
the tools and train for the things that
users actually want. I think that
there's sort of no way around that. What
can you share about how you evaluate
either like technically or um
philosophically that u makes simos
performance great?
>> This is sort of why it makes sense to do
something like this as a startup. Um so
the only the only advantage that you'll
ever have as a startup um over a big
incumbent um especially when there are
such talented teams out there uh is kind
of focus and velocity against the thing
that you're focused on. Now I think you
need if you want to be playing in what
is you know arguably I think the biggest
category in AI which is coding then you
need you need to have the talent as well
to do it. Um but you know what do you do
if you don't have the billions of you
know of dollars to uh pre-train models.
The only way we can win I think is by
being um very focused. So the way I
would you know describe what does it
look like to work on uh a big model
within a you know within an incumbent
lab is that you are one of like hundreds
of evals there are teams you know when
you look at um the model card for let's
say the 01 paper um that came out I
think last year if you look at the
distribution of what most people work on
in that on that paper was eval so you're
one of you know many people doing all
sorts of eval
um and spreading yourself in that sense,
you get something that's general, but
it's spread fairly thin. As a startup
and a startup that has a very focused
product that didn't um you know, that's
not kind of being too diffused and it's
pretty opinionated about what it is that
it's building. Your evals are basically
what you know in the startup lore when I
don't know Paul Graham would tell you to
kind of go talk to customers like half
the time build product, half the time
talk to customers. I think in the AI age
it's um develop your evals based on what
customers are saying and what they're
doing. So you have to work with your
customers to look at what prompts it is
that they're uh you know trying to solve
what general questions are they trying
to unlock. So right there's very
specific pain points that um you know
we've identified like onboarding being
one of them. Like in a big company uh it
takes months to onboard an engineer. So
how do you develop evals that accelerate
the onboarding of an engineer from you
know months to hopefully just a couple
of weeks now that you know all the
questions that they had they can just
ask Azimov and um be able to onboard
much faster. So I think there's no
there's no silver bullet other than
coupling to the information coming from
customers but then being very scientific
in the evals that you develop across
them. So you have these let's say
customer needs let's say onboarding and
you know a bunch of others um and then
you have your system capabilities which
is well what do you need in order to
provide a good experience there um well
this customer is being onboarded onto a
giant codebase like it has uh you know
it might be a codebase that on its own
is like 100 million tokens or something
well then you need to figure out some
way to reason over that giant codebase
so you have kind of a long context
reasoning capability or you kind of look
at your agent and seeing like what's
preventing it from
satisfying this query from a from a
user. Um and and so you kind of work
backwards and reverse engineer from what
a user is asking for to what
capabilities you want to drive in your
system. But the important part I think
is to be able to tweak every part of the
system from you know the product
features to the agent design to the
model training uh in order to build the
best overall system. And if you are
capped in which parts you can change
like if you can only change the product
and agent design then you're actually
pretty limited in what you can do
because you're kind of at the mercy of
you know what um kind of these general
third party models can do. What I'm
hearing from you is also that there is
some trade-off between uh having you
know uh to serve all different kinds of
users and um optimizing across those
different evals because each one of the
teams that is thinking about a
particular use case or audience at a um
more general organization for example is
less likely to have the ability to work
through the entire pipeline from
training to product to to win their use
case. So the thing that was extremely
satisfying about working on Gemini is
that you're driving research in the
frontier and there's something very
gratifying about that. The downside was
that you were so far away removed from
product that it was kind of a broken
telephone game of talking to there kind
of four different people that
information flowed through before the
model got into a customer's hands. that
coupling was very loose and I think it's
very true that um just because uh a
company might have the best model in
some general set of um academic
benchmarks doesn't actually mean they
have the best product. Uh and I think
what we're seeing is when things really
fit together. It's usually that there's
a you know a tight coupling between a
product and a model that it's a whole
system. It's not just a model alone. Um
obviously the first big example of that
was uh chat GBT right chat GBT is kind
of an incredible product that was
coupled with the model and the model was
post-trained for the prompts that are
coming in from users for chat from chat
GBT like there was a reason why it was
you know when I saw the first coding
blog post that chat GBT produced for me
that was that was just insane that was
like an insane magical moment and they
post trained specifically for that and I
think there's an another example of that
happening right now with cloud code. Um,
that's kind of tight model to product
coupling and and so I really think that
that's it's important to really be able
to do both at a great degree of
excellence.
>> What is an example as you guys open up
the weight list that you want users to
try where it should just be like obvious
that the answers are are better than
other coding agents?
>> I think the kinds of um queries that it
tends to be better at are I guess what
we would call semantic queries. So let's
say like an example of a query where
this is not the best system to use. It's
like file level. If you're looking at a
file and there's like a specific thing
in that file and you're just trying to
get quick answer to it, you don't really
need the hammer of like a deep research
like experience. Um you don't need to
wait, you know, like tens of seconds or
a minute or two uh to to get that answer
because that should just be delivered
snappily. But if you um don't exactly
know where you're looking for and you
you know you don't know the function
name or you don't you know something and
this is kind of the hard problems that
engineers are usually in like there's a
flaky test. I mean you know that this
test is flaky but that's where your
knowledge stops right and that's when
you usually go to Slack and ask an
engineer like this test is flaky what's
going on? Does anyone know? Um, you
know, we've had, uh, the way we've used
it is when you're training these models,
there's a lot of infrastructure work
that goes into it and, um, it fails in
interesting ways all the time. Uh, and
asking things like, you know, my jobs
are running slowly, five times more
slowly than usually. Why is that? Right?
That's kind of a vague query that would
be very hard to answer with existing
systems. um especially since the
knowledge around that query might live
not just in the codebase. So in the
example that I just brought up um when
this was happening that our kind of
environment jobs were slowing down uh it
turned out that two different teams kind
of infrastructure and research team
submitted um pull requests that were
they passed tests. It wasn't that um
they were wrong, but they kind of
conflicted together in a way that caused
this kind of um effectively a race
condition uh and slowed everyone's jobs
down. And these are the kinds of bugs
that actually engineers spend, you know,
that's where you you have like two or
three engineers who spend a few days
trying to solve one of these. Um so I
think these kinds of semantic queries um
tend to be the place where where a
product like this shines. In the same
way that when you think of uh what kind
of query would you ask chat GBT to you
know when it just needs to use kind of
the browser tool so it's like a quick
factual thing like you wouldn't invoke
the deep research experience but when
you wanted to compile kind of a a lot of
information around some more nebulous
query uh I think that's where people
seem to find a lot of value with deep
research so I think a similar kind of um
mindset holds here
>> one thing I would do you know working on
new system with principal engineer next
to me is just have them explain the
entire system, right? Um uh because I
want to have that context where I can't
I can't even tell the agent what to do.
Um and so I'm I'm curious from a product
perspective like uh the way you have you
know memory for agents or even for teams
is an increasingly popular idea. There's
lots of ideas about how um how to do it.
I think there are not many examples of
like collaborative memory in production
in a useful way yet but I'm sure it is
coming. Um have you guys designed it in
a form like I can understand too? Yes,
that's so this is actually one of the
more fun things to I think work on in
product today and I think it's one of
the more fun kind of features to work on
at the company is um how do you design a
teamwide memory because
>> there are all sorts of details around
well who can edit the memory um who can
view different parts of the memory uh
>> how do you you know how do you maintain
a kind of repository of of this memory
for people to edit and view
>> you have to have a concept of authority
right? People are going to say things
that are wrong.
>> The way it's worked with customers we've
started working with is uh they
typically have they want to start off
with kind of a group of trusted kind of
senior staff level plus engineers who
are kind of the gatekeepers which is a
very I think common notion. Um you have
permissions right and ownerships uh
ownership structure and code bases and
they basically are the ones who kind of
populate the memory first um and then
sort of expand the scope. But it I think
it works. It's it's actually a much more
complex feature to build uh because it
touches on um yeah or wide permissions.
Um there's some parts of the code where
a certain engineer should be able to
edit the memory but other engineers
shouldn't. Um and so it it actually
starts looking like the new way of um
versioning code effectively, right? It's
kind of a GitHub++
uh because you're not versioning the
code, you're kind of versioning the meta
knowledge around it that helps language
models understand it better. Uh but
definitely that is something that we
built but I think it's a a thing to
iterate a lot until you kind of get the
right design here because you're
effectively building kind of yeah a new
a new git from scratch. Yeah, it's
interesting and you're you're trying to
design some sort of permissions into it
versus like you know dominant system
today in actual version control is like
you know at best pull request review
right like you just
>> you try and like somebody in the
organization um with the ability to
review makes a determination as to
whether or not Misha should be able to
make this change or not actually based
on the content
>> and I think actually it's going to look
not too dissimilar from that right where
if you want to change the agents the the
teamwide memory then it probably is
going to look something like a pull
request where the person who really
understands that system uh approves or
you know edits it or something like
this. I don't think it's going to look
too dissimilar.
>> That's quite different from like
traditional role-based like group
hierarchical access control that is
quite static, right? And it makes sense
to me that it would look perhaps a
little bit more gitlike in that the you
know the person who knows what part of
the codebase you are editing or creating
creating or editing knowledge about is
going to evolve over time as the
codebase evolves over time and the team
does as well.
>> Yeah, exactly. But I think this is also
how um it was very common um at you know
at Google and I think other places as
well for different parts of the codebase
to have owners and so there are like
these ownership files um that we have as
well and basically if you're on the
ownership file then the review has to go
through you or through it has to be
approved by at least one of the members
of the ownership file and as people move
around teams and so forth um the
ownership files themselves get updated.
So I think a pretty similar structure is
probably going to hold here, but it's a
lot more nuanced than building kind of
an individual memory which is just kind
of personal to you and lives on your
computer in your you know agents MD file
or something.
>> Uh okay, if we zoom out and place like
reflection overall in context a little
bit and talk about the larger
environment.
>> Sounds good. Yeah,
>> you know, coding as a as a root problem
in this era of AI research um is
somewhat commonly held belief, right? Um
I I think a criticism of companies that
went after pre-training focused on
coding was in reality like you actually
you needed language you needed a lot of
the capabilities who can say exactly
which but the the the reasoning
capabilities that could be elicited from
large pre-trained models to do code
anyway and so you had to do all of the
work without the general use. Is it
specifically the availability of
pre-trained models um that are more
capable and open- source that made you
feel like we can go after um super
intelligent like autonomous systems in
coding without spending the pre-training
dollars up front as a as a new lab or
help me think about that logic a little
bit more. I think that that's roughly
correct for kind of, you know, these
sort of why you can get into the game
sort of short term. Um, a bet that we
made, you know, when we were starting a
company a year and a half ago was that
there were pretty decent openweight
models out there that pre-training, you
know, we kind of saw pre-training as
starting to more or less converge on
kind of a known paradigm. There's sort
of a there's a known big data set on the
internet. Yes, there are going to be
some algorithmic innovations, but you're
basically extracting signal from an
extremely noisy data set. And we felt
like there's only so much signal that
one would be able to extract without
getting into just absurd dollars for
scaling this in terms of what you're
trying to get out of it. So, what we
thought would happen is that there'd be
decent openweight models. Um, I think
the quality of the openweight frontier
has um surprised me. um they're actually
the models are better than I thought
they would be and we thought that you
can just focus on you know we're in this
brief period in history right now where
um the RL flops are still manageable
like you can you can you can really have
a best-in-class um product if you're
focused and yes you'll need to put you
know you still need a decent amount of
GPUs but from a but from a flops
perspective it's nowhere near where
pre-training like two magnitudes off.
>> Exactly. Right. So you can get into it
and kind of build out a both kind of the
product and a research arm. Our thought
was that this was the time where you can
actually start a um you know a
generational frontier lab that does not
need to be coupled to a you know to a a
big cloud provider. uh because if you do
it right, you'll actually be able to
generate um you know, sufficient
revenues to not have to be acquired or
find, you know, some strange deal where
um the cloud provider kind of owns you.
And that was kind of the model I think
of a lot of what Frontier Labs look like
preLLMs. Um I think we're already
starting to see that, you know, this
kind of more of a fieldwide thing
independently of Reflection, right? you
look at how fast like Anthropics revenue
is growing. Um I think right they're
kind of in the spot where um it's like a
massive revenue generating business
that's growing at an unprecedented rate.
That is but but that was very much the
ethos that uh we can come in, we don't
need to pre-train um you can get by with
um you know two orders of magnitude less
compute um and really get something
something out there that's really good.
Um, I think that roughly speaking, you
know, you won't need the amount of
compute that I think a frontier lab
needs uh today um as you're focused, but
you'll still need kind of um you know,
an order of magnitude less. So, uh I
think that the capitalization
requirements are still high. There's no
way of avoiding that. Um, but I'd say
they're uh and asmtoically they're
probably the same, but asmtoically
the idea is that at that point you just
have a gener generational business that
can that can raise capital off of that.
>> I guess part of my read at this point in
time is and maybe it was always true but
especially now is your actual
capabilities in terms of understanding
what eval to go after, how to design
reward models. there's perhaps like less
understanding and more dispersion in the
field in uh post-training strategies
versus like as you said more maturity in
pre-training right now because you can
if it was a simple question of scaling
RL and language models people would be
doing it more aggressively right now
right um and so actually maybe that's a
a good question for you like how would
you describe the challenges in sol
solving scaling here like why why are we
only able as a field to put like a much
smaller amount of compute to work here
and still get like best in best-in-class
results versus pre-training skilled
GPUs. Right now
>> I'd say that there are two categories or
one would think that um things fall into
um one is more around the problem
limitations of the problem structure and
the other one is well maybe the
structure is fine but you need um
algorithmic advances to really drive the
next frontier forward. There's, you
know, I'd say it's some mixture of both,
but the the biggest way I put is on the
problem structure. So, if you the thing
that I led for Gemini was reward models.
I built out um the reward models that
were used to um post- train Gemini 1
1.5. And I thought is that if you have a
reward that accurately uh basically
describes the outcome of any arbitrary
task that you throw at it, then that's
that's it. you know at that point it's
just algorithmic advances but even the
like very simple RL methods we have
today um will be able to get a lot out
of this like they'll only be bound by
their exploration abilities that's the
only thing right but if today um you
know we certainly are not in this world
where we have clean rewards for every
task we could imagine and so we're kind
of making as a field have to make sort
of various shortcuts and compromises to
that so you'll have things like LLM is
judge with um different rubrics and that
works to some extent but um it
inevitably a noisy or like stocastic
reward inevitably gets hacked. So you
kind of need a lot of these and um you
know and there's only so much you can
extract out of them. Uh then you have
sources that do have ground truth
rewards but um there are not many of
them and so you have to hope that by
optimizing against those you'll get some
generalization effects and so I think
that the fundamental problem is like the
reward problem. You can either go in and
say, "I'm just gonna all I'm going to
focus on is kind of rewards." Um or you
can say, "I'm going to take things as
they are and just be more um creative in
the methods that leverage the rewards
that have them today." And and so
examples of that are basically every
synthetic generation pipeline is some
example of this. Um so it's it's a messy
problem, but I think it's fundamentally
a like we're in a rewardbound world. I
don't think there's going to be any
breakthrough that all of a sudden you
know we go from we didn't have rewards
for everything to we do because the
reward problem in itself is at the time
I called I thought it was AGI complete
now I'd say it's ASI complete but by the
time you have a neural network that can
accurately verify any outcome that is
probably a super intelligence and so
then it goes back to again evaluations
what if you're training your rewards
your reward models on something like
what are you evaluating against what are
the tasks that um you want it to be good
at. So that's kind of um how I think
about it. I think it's a fundamentally
reward model uh or rewards bound field.
Um and then there's also kind of
algorithmic progress in terms of uh the
RL methods we have today are quite bad I
would say at um exploration and credit
assignment like they they're sort of
just like uh the fundamental algorithms
are take the things that work and make
them happen more frequently and the
things that don't work and h and make
them happen less frequently but they
don't discern at all along your say
reasoning chain which part of the
reasoning uh was correct and which part
was incorrect. And so that's why you get
these reasoning chains that are kind of
garden path meandering. Like they'll
explore all sorts of things that are,
you know, completely unnecessary and
don't look at all like the kind of
structured thinking that a person would
have. That's how the algorithm works. It
doesn't uh it doesn't actually look at
there's no credit assignment step on any
atomic level. Uh and so that I would say
falls into more algorithmic progress
bottlenecks.
>> Can I ask you for a few uh like hot
takes quickly?
>> Yeah, let's go for it. What do you think
of all of these efforts either in-house
with, you know, labs and vendors or
young companies just creating software
environments that look like popular
software to train agents in, right?
Copies of Airbnb or Amazon or Salesforce
or Excel.
>> Personally, I maybe the take is not very
hot. I'm very like bullish on it because
how else are you going to maybe the hot
take is that there's no such thing as
generalization. There's just bring the
test distribution into train.
>> Okay, that is an aggressive take. Wow.
Yeah.
So as long as like your yeah train
distribution looks something like what
you would actually want to evaluate for
um then you know users will experience
experience it as generalization. I think
you know I I think there is some
generalization that happens in these
models but um we probably as as users
overestimate it because we don't
actually see how they were made but then
you know yeah if you saw oh this
synthetic environment was actually very
similar to the thing I was asking about.
So it makes sense why the model would be
would be good at that.
>> Maybe
six months ago, I think you you you said
like I think it's possible we have my
definition of ASI in a couple years. Um
do you still believe that's true?
>> I I still do believe that's true. Um I
think that where I think we'll be in a
couple years from now is that there will
be kind of definitive um super
intelligence in
some meaningful categories of work. And
so for example when I say coding I don't
mean all of coding there but there will
be a super intelligence within some kind
of slivers some meaningful slivers of
coding that are driving um I would say
immense progress in the companies that
can benefit from that and
>> the reason why I would say that the
problem of ASI would have been solved by
then is because you've kind of um at
that point it's just a matter of
operationalizing like what you know you
know it just so happened that these
particular cate categories like you
might have a super intelligent front-end
developer because there's so much data
distribution for that on the internet
and it's easier to make synthetic data
for that. But at that point, you have
the recipe and it's just a matter of um
making kind of economic decisions of is
it worth sinking in x amount of dollars
to get the data in this category um to
get kind of something um close to super
intelligence there. Um an example of
that is what happened with reinforcement
learning before language models. um
effectively the blueprint for building
super intelligent systems was developed.
It happened with um the Atari games,
Alph Go um you know then Dota 5 and
Alphaar were near super intelligent
systems and if OpenAI and DeFi had sunk
more compute into them they would have
definitely become super intelligent.
It's just that at that point it didn't
really make s it economically like why
would you do that? Then this is a
definitional issue because I I was going
to ask like help me understand your view
of like I don't like one of the big
criticisms of RL overall has been lack
of generalization. Um that's been just
kind of a general question for this
direction. I do have friends at every
large research lab that somewhat you
know some I mean tell me if you hear uh
something of a different tenor or just
believe differently.
They believe we're going to have systems
that are much more capable than humans
and many types of knowledge work, but
they believe less in generalization. And
so in a resigned way, they're also, as
you're saying, like I guess we're just
going to bring all of it under
distribution one way or another.
>> But that means like, you know, it's a
little bit different than my my view of
like it's
>> um at at some point you're you're just
you know, you have enough capability
that the rest you get for free, right?
the rest sort of useful capability you
get for free.
>> I think I kind of have a similar
viewpoint to to the people you describe.
Um
I think the generalization capabilities
of these things has been weaker. First
of all, it's all mind-blowing that this
exists. So um we went from fundamental
existential crises and generalization
like this was the field of reinforcement
learning before language models was we
have these systems and we can make
amazing you know at like very narrow
tasks. We have absolutely no answer for
generalization like zero. Um and we went
from that to things that you know feel
like they're generalizing. They're
certainly generalizing much better than
um anything we had before. Um but it's
likely because the training
distributions are so broad. Uh so at
least the way I think about it is more
um kind of output as a user is the
system you know super intelligent in
some meaningful categories of work and
then from a research perspective is it
obvious how to make it general for
anything that you might care about and
at that point again it's just a matter
of economics maybe there are some
categories where um collecting the data
is so expensive and the return on
investment is low where um effectively
just better to have crafts people than
super intellig AIS. Um, so I think we're
moving into this kind of jag world of
jagged super intelligence where you have
a handful of these super intelligences
for categories that matter maybe
subsumed into one model at some point
but at first it'll probably be um again
I think there will be a few companies
that have kind of product model coupling
that you know that is super intelligent
in different categories. I think an
example of again starting to see the
first glimpses of super intelligence but
in a way that hasn't really transferred
to anything
meaningful yet is well we have these
like uh super intelligent test takers
now like you know Amy the Amy benchmark
is completely saturated code forces and
um other competitive um coding
environments the models are almost best
in the world and within the year will
probably be just the best in the world
and yet we have the so we have the test
competitive coding agents. Then you go
into you know a company and you ask them
have these things been helpful and they
say
>> it's uneven. Yeah.
>> Yeah. Right. they so in the in the parts
of work that are really meaningful that
would you want to see these things
driving um meaningful kind of increase
in in GDP and I think right the only way
you you'll see that is if you go into a
company and there's kind of you know a
universal understanding that yeah my
engineers are double digit percentage
points as a whole every single one of
them more productive right that's the
kind of thing that if you that starts
happening across every field then you'll
see double digit increases in GDP so I
think that the kind of benchmark maxing
that's um and it's a bit different than
benchmark maxing used to be before
because you have benchmark maxing that
is weekly correlated to customer
outcomes but it still looks very similar
to taking a board game training RL agent
on it getting kind of a landmark um
result in super intelligence and then
making a claim that you know super
intelligence is solved. I think uh the
reality is that
deployment of it is half the problem
which which it goes back to kind of
evaluating on customer problems and
building product together with the
models.
>> So you must have seen the the news of
the um windsurf nonacquisition into
either OpenAI but non-acquisition into
uh Google Deep Mind. What do you make of
it? We're seeing this verticalization
basically happen across categories that
um are material to to frontier
intelligence and uh one could argue that
the first verticalized category was
actually search right through chat GPT
um that's sort of a place where openi
verticalized first and coding has
obviously emerged as another uh kind of
frontier level category that right could
um like all these companies have
aspirations of
>> ASI
>> yeah ASI and I think you know being
basically trillion ion dollar companies
or more. I don't think that it's really
the economics that are the driving
factor, but it's more that if you want
to sustain frontier research, that's
kind of what you have to become. And so
coding has clearly become one of these
categories where uh verticalization is
um extremely important. And I think that
there's there are kind of two sides of
the story. one on the frontier lab side
and the other on the kind of more of you
know product side like a startup that
builds product but does not have its
intelligence um in house. So I think on
the on the frontier lab side I think
this is exactly kind of what Giannis and
I noticed when we were um working in
Gemini is that your model is so far away
from the product that often times even
even though you have the best model does
not at all mean that you have the best
product. So like there's a reason why uh
basically startups are the places where
uh kind of adoption of coding tools took
off rather than the frontier labs. And
so there's a verticalization happening
there. And some are going to do it
successfully and some are not. Um I
think that that's kind of we're already
starting to see that with cloud code
really being an example of a successful
verticalization. Um I don't think it's
guaranteed that a big lab can you know
buy their way to uh to the end user
because the fundamental problems of your
you know research team being far away
from your product team will still be
true and and the company having you know
a hundred different focus areas will
still be true. So I don't think that
acquiring an asset will change that
fundamentally but it does underscore the
importance of verticalization. And then
from the startup side, I think it
actually puts companies that are in
these kind of um critical path
categories like search and coding um in
a pretty existential place if they can't
build their own frontier models. Not all
frontier labs will be able to
verticalize correctly, but some will.
maybe one will and that's going to be
enough I think to kind of right take the
thunder out from a you know from a
company that's built um a great user
experience on top of someone else's
model um and I think some of those
dynamics are probably starting to play
out as well like I think that uh there
are some question marks around if you're
on this critical path category um and
you don't have your own intelligence um
you know how do you compete when your
competitor and you know just basically
subsidize their product a lot more than
you can. Um right because you're
effectively as a as a startup that's
building on top of these things to grow
quickly you're subsidizing you know the
margin that you know an Anthropic or
Gemini or whatever is making um and
Google and Anthropic and OpenAI can
subsidize their products a lot more than
you can. Uh so I think that companies
that are
don't own their intelligence or are not
kind of deeply integrated into a
customer in some way that makes them
hard to remove find themselves in this
pretty um existential place as it
becomes clear to the frontier labs that
this is a category they need to
verticalize around. I work with a few
robotics companies and so um much of my
lens on RL comes from that and I think
it is like far less clear in robotics
that you know RL will be a dominant part
of the uh training versus imitation
learning. You'll actually appreciate
this on on imitation from humans using
tools, right? Um because we run this I
I'm going to like describe this idea
that is um nuts, but I I think it's just
funny. We run this grant program twice a
year for amazing people um using ML in
different fields. Uh and it's called
embed. Uh and one of uh one of the ideas
I had as a joke recently was well like
you just record everything, right? like
not obviously just the code base, but
like your Slack and all your
documentation and all your conversations
because you are a software engineering
team. And I'm 100% sure that I can take
that data set if you ship something into
production to an end customer that has
real issues at any scale and sell it to
a friend who's a researcher at a lab
working on this stuff. Um, and so you
have some floor value that is millions
of dollars for your, you know, couple
person company and like bonuses like
maybe the software company works, right?
Obviously, this is like very noisy and
I'm I'm mostly joking, but I'm I'm
curious how you think about uh like
exploring
nonRL
data sets that could be useful to you
here.
>> If that company existed, right, we would
uh we would definitely pay for their
data.
>> There we go. See, it's not an idiot
idea.
Yeah, it's uh yeah, especially if
there's diversity. Um I think that would
be
>> I can sell the whole set.
>> Yeah. So is the question around um
how do you leverage alternative sources
of data?
>> Yeah. The the question is um I I think
there is like uh I I don't want to like
overanalogize to robotics, right? But
within robotics, you have learning from
world models, you have learning from
sim, you have learning from embodied
data that uh of different types, right?
Um imitation, then you have RL. I I
think it's like much less clear that you
can use RL for a lot of robotics today,
especially some of the harder like
manipulation problems. And I'm curious
just given you know your team has this
enormous strength in RL's like a
starting premise how you look at other
types of data to create the you know uh
coding agent experiences you want. So I
was actually um a robotics researcher
for like in reinforcement learning that
Peter Beiel's lab is a robotics lab and
it was you know it was a mixture like
Peter's lab was always around in the
intelligence problem and robotics as
being a domain where you study it and
one of the you know the reason I came to
lead reward models for Gemini was
because that's the question I was
studying with robotics I was you know we
had these RL algorithms for getting
robots to do some very narrow tasks like
moving blocks and um you know various
kind of narrow tasks in simulation. And
the question was well how do we get
generalized um yeah manipulators and um
you know just how how do we build this
all into one system and it seemed like
the rewards were bottleneck. So this a
lot of what I was studying before uh
starting you know getting into language
models was how do we design reward
functions or models for um for robotics
or you know for 3D video games like
Minecraft or something like this that
have I think similar challenges
scientifically the challenge is that if
we if you think that language model
rewards are hackable uh vision language
model rewards or you know like other
sensory signal rewards are infinitely
more hackable they are much more
short-lived than um than than rewards.
Like you can think of like language as
just a compressed representation of the
world that we have that we are kind of
magically have to start with. Um whereas
if you're processing pixels or sensory
motor signal um this is raw signal that
has a lot more noise in it. And so if
you train a neural network that is sort
of trying to detect whether this thing
was manipulated correctly or this thing
was you know moved correctly then that
thing is just infinitely more hackable
than anything you have in language
models. So the same problems be blow up
and become much larger. Uh and so that's
actually why I changed to uh language
models because I felt that this was a
fundamental problem but you know we now
have these confounding factors of these
noisy signals coming in. I think that in
at least in a generalizable way, that's
why it's really hard to get um
reinforcement learning to work um with
robotics. Um the one place where it
really does work well is when you have a
clean reward signal, which has happens
to be in these like locomotion like
scenarios. So there's a lot of work on
>> like building very robust sim to real
locomotion pipelines and it's because
it's kind of um locomotion is just your
body like you don't have to manipulate
the world around you and so you can
actually build reward signals that are
like oh you know your quadriped is
moving at this velocity without damaging
its body kind of thing. Maybe it's a bit
of a roundabout answer to the question,
but it's that I think these two fields
are very different in the data
distribution they that they support and
the kind of imitation learning data for
language models is of course the
internet right it's of course you know
we've people who've gathered all this
data on you know how we write and so
forth and so aside from that when we're
generating synthetic data um
there is the only scalable path is
really reinforcement learning the other
thing that I'll say here is that when
you're collecting data for robotics um
you can do it in like this teaop way
like it's sort of um these are things
like the things that we try to are
trying to train robots to do are very
intuitive for humans as well I mean
actually more intuitive for humans right
people are master manipulators so you
can have a lot of kind of teop like um
data collection
>> the things that we want language models
to do um are sort of you know at the
level of um it's really hard to collect
data of you know the chain of thought
process that goes on in like a human's
head um when they're trying to solve
some task and that's kind of the data
that you need and so for that reason I
think language models favor this more
like synthetic data RL like approach
where um well it's easier for us to like
verify whether the thing was done or not
than it is to actually generate all that
data from a person specifically
>> maybe we just need like a like a network
interface
>> to get the chance out
>> yeah maybe I I mean, that's kind of
actually when Jiannis and I were
starting the company, we were we were
thinking about, well, what like, you
know, maybe we just like Yeah. somehow
like have people speak into a microphone
as they're doing tasks um in order to
capture that.
>> Just stream it.
>> Yeah. And it seemed um you know,
logistically very hard to pull off.
>> Um okay, one uh one final uh uh question
about um sort of reflections path from
here. At what point do you this is a
decision you get to make in the future
but at what point do you try to look at
other problems beyond engineering and
coding? Um uh like do you do you feel
like there's a level of sufficient depth
where you should just go attack
different domains?
>> Thing that makes coding as um a category
special is that it's not um it's not
synonymous with software engineering.
It's just kind of how we think about the
market today. The reason code is special
is if you believe that uh the way a
language model will interact with almost
any piece of software is through
function calls and therefore code. Then
if you build very capable reasoners um
coding reasoners that you know are sort
of purpose-built for organization. So
you've solved the kind of long context
how do I reason over a bunch of
information disparate sources of
information problem and I can act on
pieces of software through code. then
you've kind of built a system like the
technology that um will generalize at
least operationally across other
categories of work. And so
the way I think about it is more first
just build not trying to get you know
too ahead of yourself of kind of just
first build the kind of most depthwise
comprehension system for um software
engineers. Uh this will
naturally induce more reliable coding
agents. Um, right. You can plug that in
as an MCP to your favorite IDE or, um,
coding agent. Um, you know, or use, you
know, one of our own, um, right? You can
kind of plug that into whatever surface
area makes sense for the customer and
then sort of naturally start seeing
where, um, you're getting pulled from
there. And the reason I think this will
work is because we're this is kind of
what we're already seeing right in the
um you know how do you make the system
useful for product managers um or uh
technical support people um and then you
know I think moving on to things like
sales or something like this but um
there are already places where uh you
know customers are pulling us in
different in in different directions.
It's just kind of a matter of whether
you engage on that today or not. And I
think that the risk that a startup has
is that you know you see a lot of shiny
areas where you can go and you start
kind of going diffuse before you've
really um nailed um a category. So I
think it's really important to be
focused and not diffused in a in the
short term and that if you kind of build
the right as we we kind of think about
as a contextual core for an organization
in this case an engineering organization
then you can naturally start expanding
that into adjacent areas of work in that
enterprise.
>> Okay, last question Misha where would
you characterize us as like being on the
path toward deployment of these
capabilities in in different fields? I
think we're a lot earlier than most
people think. Uh that this is going to
be one of those areas where the
technological building blocks um outpace
their deployment. And so yeah, within
the next couple of years, uh the
blueprint roughly for you know how to
build ASIS will have been set more or
less like uh maybe there are still some
um efficiency
breakthroughs that need to happen. Um
but more or less there will be a
blueprint for how do you build a super
intelligence in a particular category
actually going in and deploying it and
and building it for you know specific
categories of work. There are going to
be a lot of product and kind of research
innovation specific to those categories.
um that will probably make this a
multi-deade thing. Um so I don't think
that it's a couple of years from now and
uh GDP starts growing 10% um you know
year-over-year globally. I think we're
actually going to get there. Uh but it's
going to be a kind of multi-deade
uh endeavor. I tend to kind of um see a
lot of patterns um now in kind of real
world deployment with uh reinforcement
learning um research as it worked again
before large language models. Um and
before large language models, it used to
be you kind of you pick an environment
like you pick go, you pick um Starcraft,
you pick something else and you go and
try to solve it with, you know, some
combination of imitation learning and
reinforcement learning. And when you
look at all those projects, these were
basically things that were called
strikes within within DeepMind. Um and
each strike uh within and outside of
deep mind is was a bit of a snowflake.
Like the reinforcement learning methods
and environment setup for go was at a
high level conceptually similar but in
the detailed implementation level very
different from Starcraft, very different
from um Dota 5. And so I think that
that's sort of we're going into every
big category having a different
environment, right? And different kinds
of agents with different tools. And that
means that you'll need to you'll have
like general base models that you can
start with, but you'll need to post
train things in specific ways for those
categories. And we're starting to see
that already in the sense that the model
that powers OpenAI's codeex is not the O
series of models. It's a model called
codeex which was post trained for that
environment. The deep research models
like that's a specific environment. Um
they're also postrains for that
environment. And I think we'll basically
see more and more that that any category
that has a sufficiently large business
around it um that requires an int an
intelligence score to power it there
will be all sorts of interesting design
decisions at the research and product
level of how do you actually gain the
most performance out of this particular
category. So uh I think we'll kind of
see a lot more kind of depth first uh
players emerge over the coming decade or
so. I'm making a bet on it. And I also
think that like part of to to your point
about choosing like the problem for the
era, we don't get to choose at
conviction a problem for a hundred
years, but we do get to choose for like
this decade or so, right? and and you
know if you actually believe it's going
to be a very long-term endeavor to get
to the sort of productivity and
abundance you described but we are going
to get there then you know the other
thing you think about is like like path
to supporting the cost for bringing
anything under distribution during a
particular period right and so I'd say
like in the you know we've already
backed companies in in some of these
areas but like let's say in life
sciences or material science like it is
more expensive
to collect, you know, types of data you
might need. And that might be a a longer
endeavor or one that you have to figure
out how to fund, right? Or in robotics.
And so, um, I think it's a really
interesting timing question of like any
of these really big categories. But I
believe coding is this era.
>> I think coding is this era as well. Um
this one I think will take longer than
um people thought as well because again
enterprise there's organizational
problems just much different uh than um
the benchmarks that we have today but I
think it will be one of the faster ones.
So I don't think that's kind of a decade
out that's uh that's within the next um
you know say dozen dozens of months kind
of thing. So uh I think the the next
sort of gen generational companies in in
coding um are definitely being built
today.
>> Well, congratulations on the release,
Misha. Thanks.
>> Yeah, thank you Sarah.
>> Find us on Twitter at No Priors Pod.
Subscribe to our YouTube channel if you
want to see our faces. Follow the show
on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or wherever
you listen. That way you get a new
episode every week. And sign up for
emails or find transcripts for every
episode at no-priers.com.